---
layout: post
title: Interpretations & Assumptions
---

<h3>Introduction</h3>
Why are the interpretations interpreted the way they are interpreted? Have you analyzed them anytime? It is very interesting when you actually sit and analyze them. When we interpret something most of the time, the interpretation is not absolute interpretation. It is relative. Based on whatever interpretation we do, we make assumptions. We will be very confident of our interpretation and trust our assumptions dearly. We will goto any extent to defend our assumptions. We form strong opinions about people. I will tell you the way I interpreted some incidences that happened in my life and made assumptions based on those interpretations. Then how I learned some lessons later. Some of you might relate to people like me, some of you might consider them strange and some of you might even consider them as idiots. But remember you have to deal with such people in life and we live in a civilized world :-)

<h3>Situational Interpretation</h3>
Long back when I had not seen life that much, I went to a chinese restaurant with some of my friends. We had our food and the waitress brought us the cheque. Ofcourse the fortune cookies came along. As usual, everyone started opening the cookie and reading it and talking about the lucky numbers bla bla. I opened mine with curiosity, alas! There was no note in cookie. It was unexpected. It was one of those days, where since morning not very good things were happening to me and added to that no fortune note in my cookie. The people around me didn't know how to react. Not that they considered it a big deal! But still ... I thought, atleast I could have gotten some nice note to cheer me up that day. I was deprived of that too. According to me all terrible things were happening to me. I was feeling kind of uneasy. My feeling/assumption was very much connected with the situation I was in that day. Then a friend of mine gave an encouraging statement saying, you don't need a fortune cookie to tell you your fortune. You make your fortune yourself. 

Factually, It does not mean my other friends were feeling sorry for me, It is just that, at that instant they didn't know how to react. As far as the cookie note is concerned, the cook who was filling the cookies might have just forgotten to put the note in my cookie or might be having some fun or may be the notes got over just for that cookie and felt lazy to fill the box from another place, anything could have happened right? My wisdom told me later, Absence of fortune note in a fortune cookie is not something to be taken seriously and feel miserable because of that.

Anyways, As a side effect, After that incidence, It was cemented in my mind that I am the one who can define my fortune. What's your interpretation of absence of a note in the fortune cookie? :-)

<h3>Interpretation based on wrong assumption</h3>
I was again in a similar kind of situation. This time what happened is, I was taking a facilitation workshop. I was a member of toastmasters for few months. Because of which my public speaking skills are not bad. Facilitation is not same as public speaking. In public speaking most of the time, it is one way talking the audience will mostly be listening to you. You just focus on what you want to convey them and answer their questions. In the facilitation workshop we  were taught how to conduct or facilitate a meeting along with a co-facilitator. In other words you share your time with your co-facilitator. In addition you need to involve the audience. It is both way communication most of the time. As a part of the workshop, we had a practice session. There were lot of experienced facilitators who were giving quite good feed back on every facilitator mentioning what was good or bad. The practice facilitation team included, facilitator, co-facilitator, a scribe and a time keeper. It was my turn. I was a bit anxious, for the first time I was doing this. I made sure I did not show my anxiety. I was suppose to ask the team members one by one to introduce themselves to the audience. I forgot the time-keeper. Someone reminded me, It added to my anxiety but outside I very confidently with smiling face called out Ms.Time keeper can you introduce yourself. We completed the facilitation. Ofcourse, I was not happy with my performance. As I had goofed up right in the beginning. Atleast that was my interpretation. I was waiting for the feedback. Guess what? bummer! I did not get any feedback. My co-facilitator got some feedback for improvement. I felt bad. My assumption of absence of feedback meant I did very bad. To my surprise, when I spoke to couple of participating members, One of them said I did pretty good with my smiling face and confidence. Where as the other one said, she was assigned with some responsibility and did not focus on my facilitation. 

So I learned my assumption based on my interpretation was not correct. Atleast some of them did feel I did good and others were pre occupied with their own assignments. May be people who were suppose to give me feedback just missed it or may be felt I did not need any feedback as I showed confidence or they didn't like my facilitation or whatever. My wisdom told me, as long as I learned something from the workshop don't try to interpret too much and assume a lot.

<h3>Assumption based on your experience</h3>
It's very interesting. Read on ... I always used to think that everyone takes shower the same way I take my shower. That is, before your body wash you wash your hair whenever you do hair wash. One day I was talking to an Indian friend of mine. She is also from southern India like me but from a different state, Kerala. I come from Karnataka. The states are adjacent to each other. She told me an interesting fact, she and all the people from Kerala wash their body before they wash their hair. Recently, I read a What'sApp message which said, while having shower, it is good for health, to wet our legs first then the whole body and at the end the head/hair. How very interesting right? 

The lesson learned, I found the other way of having shower interesting where as I did not realize, other people will find my way to be interesting! Which way do you do? :-)

<h3>Location based assumption</h3>
One of the many good changes that has happened to me since I started living in America is smiling at and greeting everyone including strangers. One day, I attended a meeting wherein I did not know many of the fellow participants. I greeted my neighbour. She just turned the other side. It was new to me. I felt embarrassed. 
Later my wisdom told me, may be she is new to this greeting culture or may be she snubbed me. So what? The meeting was in America and there were so many other participants. As a matter fact, I did find lot of friendlier people and the meeting was a success for me.
Have you come across such people? How have you dealt with them? :-)

<h3>Interpretation Based on your Assumption</h3>
Finally, let me tell you a classical story related with interpretation and assumption. There will be two women, one a florist and another a fisher woman. Both of them will be very good friends. They will be selling fish and flowers in a market place. The market place will be nearer to the florist's home. One day after they complete their business they head towards their homes. It starts raining suddenly. The florist invites the fisher woman  to spend the night at her place. The fisher woman will agree to that. The florist will be happy and prepares special food for her friend. She will also fill her friend's room with fragrance of the flowers by spreading the flowers on the floor. The florist will goto her room very convinced that her friend will have a nice sleep as she has fed her good food and filled her room with fragrance. Not only that she will be thinking atleast today my dear friend will be away from the nasty fish smell. Fisher woman tries to sleep. But she couldn't. The fact is, she is not used to the fragrance while sleeping. She is accustomed to fish smell. After struggling for sometime, she will get an idea. She will take her fish basket and keep her head inside the basket and sleep. She is in deep sleep within no time. Morning happens both women get up. Florist enquires the fisher woman if she had proper sleep and she will reply saying she had great sleep. The florist will assume the great sleep was because of her food and the fragrance in the room. The fisher woman will think oh gad what I would have done without my sleep saver fish basket.

How did you like the story? It is not a good idea to assume things right? Even if it is very obvious to you, but it may not be the obvious thing for others. It's better to get it confirmed from the person involved.

<h3>Summary</h3>
Based on above examples, I learned I need to be very cautious while interpreting and making assumptions. My interpretation has to be absolute not relative. I should not make assumptions if I am not in the right frame of mind. I can not assume what applies to me will apply to others. The situations could be with family, friends or colleagues. With spouse I can avoid lot of clashes if only I do not make relative interpretations and assume. Especially at work it might lead to problems if we make assumptions about our colleagues based on our relative interpretations. We find all kinds of people in the society. What is your perspective on this?